Wisps of shadows and fog danced like ghosts wandering aimless through the Afterlife. The sun had just crept it's crown above the horizon when the pitter-patter of a child's footsteps came echoing through the glades. It was Hikaru, in a hurry.

"Masashi-sama! Masashi-sama," he said, entering a small field perched at the foot of an ancient waterfall. Across the cold, empty meadow stood a lone, entranced figure. The retired swordsman was no longer young but still had the vitality of a warrior. The child filled it's lungs to call out again but shrank back down under the gaze of a seething eye.

"Silence, child," Masashi said. As if made of water, the old man's frame relaxed into a casual saunter, as if gliding, towards the boy, kimono flowing through the wind. "What brings you here, Hiku?"

The boy bows, fear still in his eyes. "Masashi-sama, the shogun arrived in town this morning. He has requested your company at once?" The child's messy black crop cover part of his large brown eyes. Despite that, the excitement can still be seen on his face.

Masashi's gaze drifts to the willows. "Tell the shogun I will join him when I see fit. If this matter truly requires my attention, he will wait."

The shock could be heard in Hikaru's breathing, each exhalation stood quiet in the cold, morning air. "But, Masashi-sama. This is the—"

"I know who it is, boy." Masashi said. "Relay my message as I have spoken it." He glanced towards the child with a look that signified the end of the conversation.

"Yes, Masashi-sama. The shogun has said that he and his men will be staying at the town tall, awaiting your arrival..." The child scampered back from through the woods, stumbling through the branches and foliage.

Both Masashi's lungs and eyes were burning, smoke and soot filled the air. He couldn't even make out the midday sun through the cloud that enveloped the once lush green field now stained red. All the eye could see was the bloodied corpses of his soldiers and the few opposing interlopers who had perished at the ends of their blades. But the ambush had failed and his forces were paying the price in blood.

He had managed to fight his way back to their main camp, sneaking by oncoming sentries and scouting parties searching for the grenadiers who had started this fiasco. Saka's men were early, too early. His explosives signaled the attacked before Masashi's troops were in position. Shogun Hitome's forces were able to stage a counter-offensive which created a bloodbath. Masashi's forces had been slaughtered. Now he had to report back to his master. But first, he had to find those responsible.

As he arrived in camp, there was an eerie calm that he had never seen about it. Not a footstep, not a shuffle. This was the first time he had seen the camp so quiet. A tear rolled down his cheek for his fallen men.

The curtain of the commander's tent was flung open. As Masashi entered, he froze. Before him kneeled Saka, the young Lieutenant whose actions cost hundreds their lives. His tear-soaked eyes shot up towards Masashi, terrified.

Clasped tight with both hands, a curved dagger. In front of him, a small wooden horse laid on it's side; a ward to keep him safe and prosperous on the battlefield given by his young daughter back home. "Masashi-sama. I have failed you. I have failed my country. I must preserve my honor, for her sake."

Masashi let out a sigh, as the anger boiling within him started to wither. "You have failed us all today. But the greater failure, amidst all of this misery and bloodshed, would be for yet another child to lose her father."

He walked over and placed his hand upon the grenadier's shoulder. Saka rose to his feet. With sorrow, he forced himself to look Masashi in the eye.

Masashi clasped his arm tight. "You shall honor those fallen today. You shall turn this disgrace into strength and use it to do what your brother's cannot: build a better home for their children."

The two warriors embraced, pain and sadness streaking out in waves. From this sprung a sacred trust, and with it a shared burden.

As the grizzled warrior left the woods the sun was descending in the sky, fireflies dancing among the cherry blossoms. His eye turned home. Young, coifed and stern; several of the shogun's men stood between Masashi's gardens, eyes swaying with the trees.

"You presume to be welcomed to enter wherever you please, Saka," said Masashi, entering his home past a cohort of armed guards.

Regal robes and sashes flanked a weathered face. Many years and struggles had aged the face that once stood so helpless in that battlefield tent. "Masashi-sama. I have great need for you." With a look, all of the Shogunate's guards disappeared. "Can we speak, frankly?"

Masashi went to brew a pot of tea, only to find one already prepared. He poured himself a glass and joined Saka in the sitting room. "What forces you to impose your presence upon me?"

"Masashi-sama. While I know you've never forgiven my failures on the battlefield, I must ask that you look inside to the part which once graciously offered me the respect and honor of returning to my family to make penance for my misdeeds."

Masashi drank his tea, revealing nothing with his words or actions.

Saka continued, "I know that you have long banished the ways of the blade." He gestured to a wall which held a naked sword rack, a grim reminder to a life long left forgotten and buried. "But I come here asking you now for the greatest of favors."

Saka stands up, pain in his eyes. "You let me leave that battlefield in order to honor those men by protecting my family and in doing so, protecting their's as well. I come to you today to humbly state that I have failed. My daughter has perished. She was killed by mongrels and bandits who plague the countryside. And even worse, in the raid, they kidnapped her son, my only grandchild."

Saka turned to the wall. "It's too late for my sweet Sochi, but there may be a chance for my grandson."

Masashi rose to his feet, teacup now empty. "I'm but a frail old man. Swordplay is for young men."

Saka nodded. "True. But you are a strong leader, a great strategist and most importantly, an honorable man. I know that you will not give up, you will leave no stone unturned. Once again, I must ask you to help me honor my family and support me for I am weak."

Masashi fingers the rim of his glasses in an endless circle. Eyes following the swirling leaves at the bottom of the cup. He then looks at the empty sword rack. "We agreed that you would accomplish more as a politician and war hero after the ambush so I took the blame for the failed attack. As such, I've been resting in disgrace and retirement for many years."

He turned to his old comrade. "But now, it's your turn to rest easy. For my blades shall make this right."