While a contradiction to what most see of me on a daily basis, I find this quote to be the best description of my internal state of being.

    To be a Negro in this country and to be relatively conscious is to be in a rage almost all the time. — James A. Baldwin

A lot of people might be surprised to learn that under this jovial exterior, there is a bitter indignation that has come to feel normal. Part of this may stem from the everyday trials and tribulations that go along with being human. But a major part is derived from my state of being within my environment: I am a Black man in America.

Most people will not or can not understand what it is to wake up everyday as a Black man in America. Having said that, I feel that if more people made an attempt to understand that experience, our country and our world would suffer from less strife than it does today. So I wish to shed light on the Black Experience, as best I can.

First, what is the Black Experience? To look at it broadly, the collective conditions that are shared by the Black American regardless of distinct classifications (socioeconomic status, employment, gender, sexuality, etc.) In other words, it's the things that are unique to being Black in America. So, what are they?

Well, for starters, the elephant in the room: Slavery. Despite how some may feel, an honest discussion of the current state of modern Blacks in American can't afford to overlook it. As much as it's integral to the full understanding of our American history, it's of greater importance in the history of the Black American. Of course, slavery isn't isolated only to the Black American's story.

Over the ages, many have been enslaved and many more have had their freedom stripped from them, in one fashion or another; many of them on bases just as appalling, if not more so, as those of the African Slave Trade. As some are quick to remind us, we weren't the only ones whose ancestors were treated poorly. Very true. This is usually coupled with statements to "get over it" or "let it go", in regards to slavery being brought up in relation to current day conditions. They point to examples of their ancestors being abused and how they, as a people, have "moved on." While this is an appealing sentiment and no one would argue the validity of the statements, one must consider the major difference between of those ethnic injustices: Unlike most ethnic groups, Black people are still suffering the consequences and fallout of the injustice imparted on their ancestors.

While xenophobia, misogyny and all types of prejudice run rampant in today's world, you find few demographics still paying the price for misdeeds committed on them generations ago. Our country has a long history of disenfranchising the Black American, starting with but not ending with Slavery. We still witness this today in the form of police brutality, racial profiling and other discriminatory practices that find our people not only targets for abuse and exploitation but victims of crimes which go unpunished. We are treated as less than. While this treatment is nothing new, people point to things like the Emancipation Proclamation, the abolition of Jim Crow, and the Civil Rights movement, as a whole, as signs that we as a country have moved past that point. But any relatively conscious Black person can tell you otherwise.

One funny circumstance that goes in hand with this is the situation listed below. More often than not, a Black person who interacts with those outside their ethnicity will soon find others (non-Blacks) trying to dictate and define the Black Experience to them. Years of living in predominantly non-Black communities and going to predominantly non-Black schools has taught me that it's best to go along and let these others express their opinions. This is a common tact you'll find among most "civilized" Blacks. Smile, laugh and carry on because there is nothing more detrimental to standing and opportunity in America (particularly White America) than becoming known as "the Angry Black". So we laugh and joke and never discuss anything too serious, lest we reveal our true views and hurt the non-Black people's feelings. But the fact is this: when a non-Black person tells me that I "don't act black" or feel the need to explain "Black Things" to me, I can find no other word to describe this behavior but foolish. Period.

The Black Experience isn't something that a non-Black can explain to a Black person. You can't criticize and correct a Black person for not being "Black enough". They know their experience, they live it everyday. As a non-Black, to tell someone that they aren't Black because they don't fit your notion of what a Black person is only reveals your own ignorance and close-mindedness.

Being Black isn't defined by the way you speak, dress, walk or any other facet of how you carry yourself. Being Black is about recognizing that you are apart of a cultural lineage and heritage that has endured for centuries under the oppressive regimes that would prefer to see your ancestors discarded and laid to waste. Being Black is about recognizing that the struggles you face are also being faced by hundreds of millions of other Black people who share in that same heritage. It's recognizing that you exist as a part of a bigger family, one which doesn't judge you by insignificant and superficial standards like your vocabulary and use of grammar.

Being Black in America is about waking up everyday in a rage because you know that you will not be treated fairly. It's waking up everyday in a rage because you know that you are a target and "person of interest". It's waking up everyday in a rage because people who have never lived your experience will feel entitled to tell you how to think and feel and act. It's waking up everyday IN A RAGE yet persisting in the fight to build a better world than the one you received.